# Recurse Center Application Spring 2 2025

## Essay Response to "most fascinating thing learned" Prompt
The most fascinating thing I've learned recently is how to properly ski. This is a continuing journey that is, to me, physically, socially, and intellectually demanding. Prior to three ski seasons ago ('22/'23), I had not skied more than about a dozen times in my 
life. As a child I loved the sensation, but would be lucky to get more than a couple days on the mountain each year. By the time I left home, I stopped completely. I had mostly forgotten about the activity and never dreamed I would be able to progress to the point 
that I would be "one of those guys" people chase down to ask for tips while on the slope.

A few weeks before Christmas 2022, my now fiance spontaneously suggested we go skiing, as we had fallen into a bit of a rut with weekend activities we could both enjoy (at the time we both worked full time). Living in New Mexico, we have access to several great ski 
resorts, so we simply went down to a local ski shop, rented gear, and headed up the mountain. Little did I know that I would soon be spending 30 to 40 days a year training on each turn, tuning and maintaining my own edges, wearing out boots and skis, activating 
mirroring neurons watching instructional videos, and practicing small talk with strangers on each lift ride.

I had stumbled upon a revolutionary piece of coaching equipment called Carv by the end of that December. For the first few days prior, I would just strap on rental gear and hope for the best, trying to keep my balance and manage fatigue as I wrestled the skis down 
the firm but consistent hard-packed snow. Then I found Carv. Also I spent more on sporting equipment than I ever had before; one nice thing about starting out with nothing is it's much easier to color coordinate. This digital ski coaching system includes boot 
sensors that track over ten metrics, including edge angle and g-forces, while providing a polished mobile app with map overlays and a leader board component. What it lacks in tracking upper body movements, I made up for by studying supplemental videos from various 
ski curricula. That season I learned, jaggedly, how to lean my upper body and what to do with my inside leg as I continued to lean. I also learned how terrifying it is to skid out and slam into the ground going 30 miles per hour (it's more of a shock to the system 
and not particularly painful until one takes multiple hits to the same spot). Each ride up the lift I would eagerly tell the captive audience about how great carving style turns are, not knowing much about the effect of snow conditions, or that many were out to 
enjoy nature and not to engage in talks about gear or their experience pulling g's on short radius turns.

By the end of the next season, I had progressed in the Carv system to the second highest level of "Grim Ripper" on my best runs. I was lucky to again experience an above average snow season (i.e. more forgiving snow), and had begun to understand and feel the 
variables that go into boot fitment, ski construction, and ski edge angles. I was very proud to learn from a Carv technical support inquiry that a "high frequency noise" issue affecting early morning runs on extra firm cold hardpack was first identified by the US 
men's ski team. It turns out my boot liners were "packed out" and the extra loose space was partly to blame. On lift rides I would do a better job of "reading the room" and had fun making more casual conversation; perhaps most fun was guessing someone's country of 
origin by accent (I'm decent at differentiating between New Zealand and Australia, Germans/Austrians are easy). Sometimes I'd get lucky and ride up with an instructor where we could mutually discuss the depths of technique and gear.

This season is rapidly melting to a close. We've had a below average level of snowfall and an early spring. The melting and thawing of the snow destroys its crystalline structure, and for all the magic the groomers and their machinery can cast, the snow rapidly 
degrades after a couple hours on busy days; once the groomed top layer is heavily tracked, only extra firm, icy, and often uneven hardpack remains. Those conditions are terrible for high g-force dynamic carving turns. Further disappointing, I had missed arguably the 
best month of the season (December) due to a serious early season fall which hurt my left arm. It was only my second day wearing new better fitting boots and I was looking forward to finally being able to ski less busy weekdays. I had just been laid off in late 
November and didn't need to immediately begin job hunting. Just my luck.

Terrified, I pushed through the fear and got back on the mountain in January. The muscle memory and recently reviewed instructional videos paid off and I continued to progress. Towards the end of January I was able to consistently put down laps with scores at or 
slightly above my best runs of the previous season. I was no longer immediately spewing technical or gear jargon on each lift ride, rather, probing with some ice breakers like, "where ya' from", or "what other mountains have you visited"? But for all the glory I 
felt from carved turns, I never could quite connect with those who preferred moguls, and it seems that is the case for most people. So I signed up for a mogul workshop of five half-day group sessions, once a week.

Around this time I discovered Carv had a few open software engineering positions. I was ecstatic. My decade of professional experience was double the minimum, though in a different language and not involving mobile apps. I had no concerns about transferable skills, 
especially since I had played around with mobile app development in college and Kotlin is syntactically similar to my preferred Scala tongue. The cultural fit was ideal and a requirement was effectively to be a ski fanatic. I had already been in contact with Carv 
through two voluntary feedback video meetings and had my foot stealthy in the door. To my dismay, the position was originally remote, but had transitioned to be an in person role at the soon to be opened US headquarters in a neighboring state. I am currently 
unwilling to leave the land of enchantment, but I'm not sure I would have enjoyed this specific marriage of work and play long term. After this reflection I was now at peace and returned my focus to the snow.

The first few mogul lessons were okay, mostly focusing on drills doing the complete opposite of what I was practicing. All edge all the time is great, but to ski bumps one must learn when to release the edge and skid. The instructor had been excellent at providing 
one-on-one tips while keeping the group's skill level as a whole in mind. For the first time ever I was able to get some real upper body feedback on my carved turns too, as after the end of a bump run we'd "free ski" back to the lift on groomed terrain. My mechanics 
were good overall, but I needed to be smoother as I would go on edge for a carved turn, or as I would release the edge on a mogul. By the third lesson we went down advanced bump runs I'd never traversed. Terror turned to joy and I began to, as they say, "attack the 
moguls". I didn't even care that the thin cover meant skidding over rocks; I now knew I needed to frequently sharpen my edges anyways to deal with the icier snow, so a little rock damage was not much extra maintenance to deal with. On ski days without lessons, I 
would still avoid bump runs, but I would practice smoothness. By mid February I had progressed to the highest category level in Carv and was in the 99th percentile of all 41 thousand global users on my best run. I thought it was fluke, but my average scores kept 
creeping up and on subsequent days I had a few morning runs within a point or two of my best. Then early spring weather arrived.

It is quite the sensation to be at an altitude of 12 thousand feet in below freezing temperatures, only to arrive to backyard 70 degree temperatures after a 90 minute drive back home, where the high desert terrain is devoid of moisture, let alone snow. Most other 
ski states do not share this range of extremes. During the next mogul lesson, we as a group had clearly progressed. We went down an extremely steep slope in minimally viable conditions which we never dreamed of tackling. The whole mountain truly opened up to us. 
When the groomers are "skied out" by the masses, we can head to the less frequented bumps. We even got a fresh three quarter inch of snow the night before, which actually made a big difference covering up barren rocks. We have one more lesson this coming Sunday and 
the forecast is calling for another four to six inches during the week. Perhaps we won't have an early end to the season as we've all feared.

